# Committee Maturity Framework

The table below is the maturity framework which we are assessing each of the committees by.  Our ambition is to have each of the committees to fully operational by 30th June 2024

Below is a table which contains the maturity matrix which we assess each of the committees by, our ambition is to have all committees to fully operational by 30 June 2024.

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th>Phase</th><th>Criteria</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Roles and Responsibilities</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Chair and Secretary in place and published on Gitbooks</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary in place with appointment process for role and committee membership defined and published on Gitbooks.</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary in place with participant and observer committee members confirmed from the community. Representatives nominated for subject areas and published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary in place. Representatives nominated for subject areas and published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Governance Docs</strong><br>(Terms of Reference, Roles and Responsibilities, community engagement, arbitration, escalation &#x26; grievance, voting process, quorum agreements and code of conduct)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Governance Docs drafted and published on Gitbooks</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Governance Docs published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Governance Docs reviewed and published annually</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Purpose</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Purpose / goals / charter recorded in Gitbooks</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Purpose / goals / charter published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Purpose and Goals reviewed annually and published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Purpose and Goals reviewed annually and published to community on the Intersect Website with feedback loop</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Effective Meetings</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Meetings being held and minuted</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Regular Meetings scheduled, agenda sent, minutes with actions and decisions and shared as draft internally on Gitbooks</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Meetings scheduled, agenda &#x26; pre-reading sent, minuted with actions and decisions and published to the community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Meetings scheduled, agenda sent, minuted with actions and decisions and published on Gitbooks. Regular engagements with community.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Maturity Plan / Roadmap</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>A plan to achieve bootstrap</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>A plan for next 6 months</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>A plan for next 12 months</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>A plan for 12 months and outline plan for 5 years and published to community on the Intersect Website.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Working Groups</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Working Groups identified and managed through MCC</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Committee aligned Working Groups in place with defined and agreed purpose, outputs and plan with oversight / tasking process in place with reporting mechanism</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Committee aligned Working Groups in place with defined and agreed purpose, outputs and plan with oversight / tasking process in place with reporting mechanism. Updates published to the community</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Committee aligned Working Groups in place with diversity considered with defined and agreed purpose, outputs and plan with oversight / tasking process in place with reporting mechanism. Updates published to the community</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Finances Mgt</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>N/A - Managed centrally</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Finances requirements known and shared with Budgets Committee</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Delegations flowed to committee and actively managed</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>3 Year forecast known</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Committee Membership &#x26; Diversity</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Interim Chair and Secretary in place</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Process for appointment of key roles in place, Chair and Secretary appointed</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Diversity of committee being actively assessed and recruitment for under represented communities in progress with defined process</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Diversity of committee represents diversity of Intersect community.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Operational and Delivery Tasking</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>Process for tasking operational and delivery layer in place</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Tasks / work being assigned To operation and delivery teams</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Tasks and work being assigned to operational and delivery teams with plans and being delivered with feedback mechanism as per process</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Committee able to demonstrate value being achieved by work levied on operational and delivery teams and presented to the board and community.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Community Engagement</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Committee purpose, ToRs and Key Roles published on Intersect website to community with engagement charter</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Hit rates, click through and trends assessed from Intersect website, Discord and other engagement sites.</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Committee community engagement plan in place and assessed against hit rates and trends</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Committee Health</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Bootstrap Phase</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Interim Phase</td><td>Committee Health Charter in place</td></tr><tr><td>Fully Operational Phase</td><td>Committee Health Checks undertaken regularly</td></tr><tr><td>Exemplar</td><td>Committee Health Checks shared with community.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
